---
layout: post
title:  "Nirmatti - tropical almond"
author: sushma
categories: [ Angiosperm , Combretaceae ]
image: assets/images/arjuna1.jpg
beforetoc: "Terminalia arjuna"
featured: true
toc: true
---
  
**Scientific Classification**  
>Kingdom:			Plantae  
>Division:			Angiospermae  
>Class:				Dicotyledonae  
>Order:				Myrtales  
>Family:			Combretaceae  
>Genus:				*Terminalia*  
>Species:			*T.arjuna*  
>Scientific Name:	*Terminalia arjuna* (Roxb) W. & A.  
  
**Common names**  
**English:** White marudah, tropical almond, arjun, Malabar almond, arjuna.  
**Hindi:** koha, arjun, arjuna, arjan, kahu.  
**Kannada:** Nirmatti.  
**Marathi:** Arjuna, Arjun Sadada, Sadura.  
  
**Description**  
1. **Habit and Habitat:** SEvergreen large tree, grows up to 20-25 meters in height. It Shedds its skin in time to time. Bark is smooth and grey. Marshy areas and on riverbanks. Banks of streams and rivers in central India.  
2. **Distribution:** The species is common in mixed dry deciduous tropical forests throughout the greater part of India, Sri Lanka, and Mayanmar.  
3. **Morphology:**  
**Leaf:** Leaves simple, sub opposite, coriaceous, oblong or elliptic, hard, 10-20 cm long.  
**Inflorescence:** short axillary spikes or small terminal panicles.  
**Flowers:** Flowers are small, cup-shaped, regular, sessile, polygamous, white, creamy or greenish-white and strongly honey-scented. Calyx is glabrous and has five short triangular lobes.  
**Androecium:** Stamens much exserted.  
**Gynoecium:** Ovary glabrous. Disk densely yellowish-hairy.  
**Fruit:** Fruit is ovoid   dark brown to reddish brown fibrous woody, indehiscent drupe, glabrous with 5-7 equal thick narrow stiff-wings and striated with numerous upwards-curved veins.  
**Seeds:** Obovoid, turgid.  
**Flowering and Fruiting time:** April-July. June onwards.  
4. **Propagation:** by seeds.  
5. **Importance:** The timber is very useful for agricultural implements and boat-building. Leaves juice used in earache, externally used as a cover on sores and ulcers; Fruits used as tonic. Bark useful in fractures, ulcers, urethrorrhea, leucorrhoea, diabetes, cardiopathy, anemia cirrhosis of the liver and hypertension.  
6. **Location:** Botanical Garden.  

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m18!1m12!1m3!1d1192.0132891368653!2d74.50752882923213!3d15.83383199931419!2m3!1f0!2f0!3f0!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x0%3A0x0!2zMTXCsDUwJzAxLjgiTiA3NMKwMzAnMjkuMSJF!5e1!3m2!1sen!2sin!4v1565022708281!5m2!1sen!2sin" width="400" height="300" frameborder="0" style="border:0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
