---
layout: post
title:  "Manjari - Fiddle Wood Tree"
author: tehsin
categories: [ Angiosperm, Verbinaceae ]
image: assets/images/manjari1.jpg
beforetoc: "Citharexylum spinosum"
toc: true
---

**Scientific Classification**  
>Kingdom:			Plantae  
>Division:			Magnoliophyta  
>Class:				Magnoliopsida  
>Order:				Lamiales  
>Family:			Verbinaceae  
>Genus:				*Citharexylum*  
>Species:			*C.spinosum*  
>Scientific Name:	*Citharexylum spinosum* L.  

**Common Names:**  
**English name:**		Fiddle woodspiny fiddle.  
**Hindi name:**     	Manjari.  
**Kanda name:** 		Beli parijatha.  

**Description:**  
**Habit and habitat:** It is a tree that reaches a height of up to 15 m (49 ft). Commonly grown as garden / avenue tree.  
**Distribution:** Native of West Indies; induced and naturalised in many other countries.  
**Morphology:**  
**Leaf:** leaves are up to 8 inches long, smooth and oval or oblong. The leaves also narrow at the base to a short stem, are coarse-toothed or entire, pointed at the tip, and are opposite or in groups of three.  
**Flower:** flowers numerous, small, regular or somewhat zygomorphic; bractlets inconspicuous. Calyx cupular or tubular, 5-lobed or 5-toothed to truncate. Corolla white, 0.8-1 cm across, infundibular or hypocrateriform, usually 5-lobed, rarely 4- or 6-lobed, lobes slightly irregular; tube narrow, cylindric.  
**Inflorescence:** Inflorescence axillary and terminal, recemiform or spicate, simple or branched, erect or droopin.  
**Fruit:** Fruit a drupe, partly enclosed by the enlarged calyx; pyrenes 2-loculed and 2 -seeded.  
**Flowering & Fruiting:** April-September.  
**Propagation:** Seed.  
**Importance:**  
Fiddle wood tree is used to make musical. The tree is harvested from the wild for local use as a food, medicine and source of a good quality wood. The wood is especially valued for making musical instruments, and the plant is often also grown as an ornamental. A decoction of the young twigs is used in the treatment of children's thrush. The nectar-rich flowers are very attractive to bees.  
**Location:** Botanical Garden.  
