---
layout: post
title:  "Pipri - Bat Tree"
author: mithun
categories: [ Angiosperm , Moraceae ]
image: assets/images/bat tree1.jpg
beforetoc: "Ficus amplissima"
toc: true
---

**Scientific Classification**  
>Kingdom:			Plantae  
>Division:			Angiosperm  
>Class:				Dicotyledonae  
>Order:				Rosales  
>Family:			Moraceae  
>Genus:				*Ficus*  
>Species:			*F.amplissima*  
>Scientific Name:	*Ficus amplissima* Sm.  
  
**Common Names:**  
**English:**                              Bat tree.  
**Hindi:**                                 Pipri.  
**Kannada:**                            Bilibasari Mara, Bilibasari, Bilibasuri.  
**Marathi:**                              pimpl.  
  
**Description:**  
1. **Habit and habitat:** A large, glabrous tree. Terrestrial habitat.  
2. **Distribution:**  
3. **Morphology:**  
**Leaf:** Alternate, ovate, apiculate-acuminate coriaceous, upper surface dotted with minute raised spots, base narrowed, 3-nerved, petiole with a gland at the apex on the underside.  
**Inflorescence:** Hypanthodium globose, sessile, axillary, pubescent, androgynous, basal bracts 3, broadly ovate.  
**Flower:** Perianth of 3, ovate tepals.  
**Androecium:** Staminate florets sessile, monandrous, filament clavate, larger than the anther.  
**Gynoecium:** ovary superior, bean shaped, 1 mm, white; style filiform, stigma cylindric.  
**Fruit and seeds:** Small stalkless figs, light green in colour initially, ripening to syconium red or purple, with smooth achenes.  
**Flowering and Fruiting Time:** November – January.  
4. **Propagation:** Stem cuttings and by seeds.  
5. **Importance:**  
It is used to make pickles. Strong fibres are obtained from the bark and is used for making ropes. Wood is very hard and is used by the farmers to make tools.  
6. **Location:** Library-Gymkhana.  
