---
layout: post
title:  "Paarijat - Night Jasmine Tree"
author: tehsin
categories: [ Angiosperm, Oleaceae ]
image: assets/images/paarijat1.jpg
beforetoc: "Nyctanthes arbor-tristis"
toc: true
---

**Scientific Classification**  
>Kingdom:			Plantae  
>Division:			Angiospermae  
>Class:				Dicotyledonae  
>Order:				Tamiales  
>Family:			Oleaceae  
>Genus:				*Nyctanthes*  
>Species:			*N.arbor-tristis*  
>Scientific Name:	*Nyctanthes arbor-tristis* L.  

**Common Names:**  
**English:**          Coral Jasmine, Night Jasmine.
**Hindi:**              Paarijat,Har Singar, Shefali.
**Kannada:**            Goli, Harsing, Parijata.
**Marathi:**            Kharbadi, Kharassi, Khurasli, Parijatak.

**Description:**  
1. **Habit & Habitat:**  Coral jasmine is a large shrub or small tree with spreading branches, growing up to 10 metres tall.Rocky ground in dry hillsides, and as undergrowth in dry deciduous forest.  
2. **Distribution:**  it is native  to  southern Asia, stretching across northern Pakistan and Nepal  through  Northern  India  to  Southeast  Thailand.  It  grows  at  sea  level  up  to  1500  m  altitude,  within  a  wide range of rainfall patterns, from seasonal to non-seasonal and is tolerant to moderate shade.  
3. **Morphology:**  
**Leaf:** The simple leaves are opposite, with an entire margin about 6 to 12 cm long and 2 to 6.5 cm wide.  
**Inflorescence:** Axillary and in short terminal cymes.  
**Flower:** Flowers white, sweet scented, sessile, 3-7 together on hairy quadrangular peduncles arranged in cymose panicles.Calyx tube funnel shaped, 4-5 toothed; corolla tube cylindrical, orange red, lobeswhite, 5-8, contorted in bud.  
**Flowering season:** September – October.  
**Androecium:** Anthers subsesile near the mouth of the corolla tube.  
**Gynoecium:** Ovary two celled style cylindric, bifid.  
**Fruit:** The fruit is flat, brown and heart-shaped to rounded-capsule, around 2 cm in diameter with two sections, each containing a single seed.  
**Seed:** The seed is compressed and is 1 per cell. Seeds are exalbuminous, testa thick, the outer layer of large transparent cells and heavily vascularised.  
**Fruiting season:**  cold season.  
4. **Propagation:** Coral jasmine is easily propagated by seeds or cuttings.  
5. **Importance:**  
The leaves are used in fevers and rheumatism. The leaves have been proved effective in malaria. The dry leaves are used as fine sand-paper. A saffron-yellow dye obtained from the flowers is used for colouring food. They are used medicinally to provoke menstruation.  
6. **Location:** Botanical Garden.  
