---
layout: post
title:  "Desi-badam - Indian almond"
author: sushma
categories: [ Angiosperm , Combretaceae ]
image: assets/images/catappa1.jpg
beforetoc: "Terminalia catappa"
toc: true
---
  
**Scientific Classification**  
>Kingdom:			Plantae  
>Division:			Angiospermae  
>Class:				Dicotyledonae  
>Order:				Myrtales  
>Family:			Combretaceae  
>Genus:				*Terminalia*  
>Species:			*T.catappa*  
>Scientific Name:	*Terminalia catappa* L.  
  
**Common names**  
**English:** Indian almond.  
**Hindi:** Jangli-badam, Desi-badam.  
**Kannada:** Kadubadami, Badami Mara.   
**Marathi:** Bengali Badam.  
  
**Description**  
1. **Habit and Habitat:** fast-growing, deciduous tree with a pagoda-like crown with layers of branches spaced at about 1–2 m apart. They can grow up to 25 m tall. It grows in coastal thickets, beaches, rocky shores, sand dunes, parks, gardens, and edges of mangrove swamps.  
2. **Distribution:** Naturally widespread in subtropical and tropical zones of Indian and Pacific Oceans and planted extensively throughout the tropics.  
3. **Morphology:**  
**Leaf:** Alternate, 6-12 inch long, obovate, oblong, pointed at apex, base rounded with a depressed gland on each side of the midrib, exstipulate.  
**Inflorescence:** Axillary solitary spikes.  
**Flowers:** The plant is monoecious, producing both male and bisexual flowers. Greenish-white, small, bracteoles minute, lanceolate. Calyx-tube ovoid, teeth 4-5 triangular. Petals 0.  
**Androecium:** Stamens 8-10, episepalous.  
**Gynoecium:** Ovary inferior, ovules pendulous, style awl-shaped, stigma simple.  
**Fruit:** As fibrous drupe, oval or ellipsoid, compressed, with 2 elevated margins, convex on both sides.  
**Seeds:** Single seed. The seed within the fruit is edible when fully ripe.  
**Flowering and Fruiting time:** August – September.  
4. **Propagation:** by seeds.  
5. **Importance:** Planted in the gardens and can be used on road-sides as a shade-tree.The fruit is edible.The juice of the leaves is used in headaches and skin diseases.The fruit is cooling astringent to bowels.  
6. **Location:** Main Entrance Garden, Hostel, Sports garden.  
