---
layout: post
title:  " Neelagiri - Eucalyptus Tree"
author: tehsin
categories: [ Angiosperm, Myrtaceae ]
image: assets/images/neelgiri1.jpg
beforetoc: "Eucalyptus globulus"
toc: true
---

**Scientific Classification**  
>Kingdom:			Plantae  
>Division:			Magnoliophyta  
>Class:				Magnoliopsida  
>Order:				Myrtales  
>Family:			Myrtaceae  
>Genus:				*Eucalyptus*  
>Species:			*E.globulus*  
>Scientific Name:	*Eucalyptus globulus* L.  

**Common Names:**  
**English:**  Blue gum, Eucalypt, Yukali, Tasmamian Blue Gum, Tasmanian blue gum.  
**Hindi:**    Neelgiri.  
**Kannada:**    Neelagiri.  
**Marathi:**   Nilgiri.  

**Description:**   
1. **Habit & Habitat:** Large evergreen tree 15-20 m tall, usually produces a clear trunk,canopy 3-5m,erect.Bark whitish, smooth, flasky.Found in hilly country or moist valleys in deep rich soils.  
2. **Distribution:** Eucalyptus globulus is naturally distributed in Tasmania and south-eastern Australia, but is now widely planted and naturalized in subtropical regions around the world.  
3. **Morphology:**  
**Leaf:** Leaves opposite,10-15cm, lanceolate, acuminate, shining, strongly odourous, petiole 3cm.  
**Inflorescence:** axillary unbranched, peduncle absent or short and stout, 0–0.5 cm long, bud solitary, sessile. In most cases they are grouped in inflorescences which are sometimes definite, as cymes or axillary umbels; and sometimes indefinite, as panicles or terminal corymbs.  
**Flower:** flowers  are bisexual white ,2-3cm,sessile,solitary,axillary.  
**Androecium:** stamens many, free, 0.5-1.5 cm; anthers obovoid, 0.5-1 mm, versatile.  
**Gynoecium:** ovary inferior, adnate to the hypanthium, 3-5-celled, ovules many; style simple; stigma capitate.  
Fruit: The fruit, a distinctive top-shaped woody capsule 15 mm (0.6 in) long and 2 cm (1 in) in diameter.  
**Seed:** Seed capsules persist on trees until at least the following summer. There are about 70 viable seeds per gram.  
**Flowering & Fruiting season:** September to December.  
4. **Propagation:**  Through seed.  
5. **Importance:** The essential oil found in the leaves is a powerful antiseptic and is used all over the world for relieving coughs and colds, sore throats and other infections.Eucalyptus globulus is very important as fuelwood and for charcoal making, and it is an important source of pulp for the production of printing, writing, specialty and tissue papers.The flowers are a source of nectar for bees, giving honey with a flavour like muscat grapes.  
6. **Location:** Campus Avenue.  
