---
layout: post
title:  "Piliya - Yellow bells"
author: sushma
categories: [ Angiosperm , Bignoniaceae ]
image: assets/images/stans1.jpg
beforetoc: "Tecoma stans"
toc: true
---
  
**Scientific Classification**  
>Kingdom:			Plantae  
>Division:			Angiospermae  
>Class:				Dicotyledonae  
>Order:				Scrophulariales  
>Family:			Bignoniaceae  
>Genus:				*Tecoma*  
>Species:			*T.stans*  
>Scientific Name:	*Tecoma stans* (L.) Juss. ex Kunth.  
  
**Common names**  
**English:** Yellow bells, Yellow trumpet, Yellow-Elder.  
**Hindi:** Piliya.  
**Kannada:** Koranekelar.  
**Marathi:** Ghanti fuls.  
  
**Description**  
1. **Habit and Habitat:** A large shrub or small, much-branched, tree usually growing 1.5 to 5 m tall, but occasionally reaching up to 10 m in height. A weed of roadsides, waterways (i.e. riparian areas), open woodlands, grasslands, forest margins, waste areas and disturbed sites in tropical and sub-tropical environments.  
2. **Distribution:** Widely naturalised in the coastal districts of northern and eastern Australia (i.e. in northern and eastern Queensland, eastern New South Wales and northern and north-western Western Australia).  
3. **Morphology:**  
**Leaf:** Compound, opposite, imparipinnate, leaflets 5-11, ovate-oblong to lanceolate, acuminate and serrate.  
**Inflorescence:** Terminal panicles.  
**Flowers:** Flowers Monoecious  occur in clusters at the ends of the branches and are trumpet shaped with 5 rounded lobes, 6 cm long, pale to bright yellow, with faint orange stripes at the throat. Calyx cup-shaped, 5-fid.  Corolla funnel-shaped or bell-shaped, lobes 5, wavy.  
**Androecium:** Stamens 4, didynamous, staminode present, anthers hairy, divergent.  
**Gynoecium:** Ovary seated on a wavy disk, style long, stigma 2-lipped.  
**Fruit:** Capsule, long, linear, flat, seeds winged.  
**Seeds:** many winged seeds, green when young, pale brown on ripening and remain on the tree in untidy clusters for many month.  
**Flowering and Fruiting time:** September – December.  
4. **Propagation:** by seeds.  
5. **Importance:** It is used as a garden ornament. It is used in cabinet making, turnery, to make tools, and in the construction of buildings.The flowers are diuretic. A leaf infusion can be taken orally for treating diabetes and stomach pain.  
6. **Location:** Avenue, Ananth Manohar Garden, Sports Ground, Parking area, Library - Gymkhana.  
