---
layout: post
title:  "Ashoka Tree"
author: sal
categories: [ Jekyll, tutorial ]
image: assets/images/tree1a.jpg
beforetoc: " Saraca Asoca Roxb"
toc: true
---

**Scientific Classification**  
>Kingdom : 		Plantae   
>Division :		Magnoliophyta   
>Class : 			Magnoliopsida   
>Order :			Fabales   
>Family : 		Caesalpinaceae   
>Genus : 		Saraca   
>Species : 		S. asoca   
>Scientific Name : 	Saraca asoca Roxb.  

**Common Names**  
English : 	Ashoka Tree  
Hindi: 		Sita Ashoka, Vand Ichitra  
Kannada:	Achenge, Ashanke, Kenkalimara, Ashokadamara  
Marathi:	Ashok, Jasundi, Sita Ashoka  

**Description** 
1. Habit and Habitat: Terrestrial, grows at an altitude of 750 m above the sea level6 and in fertile and semi-fertile soil. Height up to 9-10mts. Perennial, which can range from dark green to greyish green in colour. 
2. Distribution: It is found all over Indian subcontinent. Native to the Western Ghats and Deccan plateau. It also found in central and Eastern Himalayas.
3. Morphology:
Leaf: It is a Paripinnately Compound leaves, alternate, distichous and 7-30 cm long and its petiolule 0.1-0.6 cm long and opposite leaflets, 4-6 pairs, narrow elliptic-oblong or lanceolate, and its apex acute to acuminate, base acute to rounded or subcordate, glabrous, midrib raised above and tertiary nerves reticulate.
Inflorescence: Dense Corymbs
Flower: Bracteate, brateolate, Calyx small petaloid, Corolla tube long, 5 petals.
Androecium: 10 stamens, long, yellow at the base red at tapering ends, bilobed.
Gynoecium: Ovary superior, many ovules, style long, stigma very small.
Fruit: Pod, compressed, oblong, about 15cms long, dehisce longitudinally.
Seeds: obovate-orbiculate.
4. Propagation: Through seeds.
5. Importance:   
Grown as ornamental tree in gardens.
Highly Medicinal valued. It is anti-microbial, anti-ulcer, anti-oxidant, anti-cancerous, larvicidal activity, anti-inflammatory, anti-diabetic, anti-helminthic.

6. Location: Anant Manohar Garden opposite to RPD office.

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m18!1m12!1m3!1d1192.0147996188364!2d74.50686982923209!3d15.833575999314196!2m3!1f0!2f0!3f0!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x0%3A0x0!2zMTXCsDUwJzAwLjkiTiA3NMKwMzAnMjYuNyJF!5e1!3m2!1sen!2sin!4v1565020546089!5m2!1sen!2sin" width="400" height="300" frameborder="0" style="border:0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

