---
layout: post
title:  "Dalchini - Cinnamon Tree"
author: tehsin
categories: [ Angiosperm, Lauraceae ]
image: assets/images/dalchini1.jpg
beforetoc: "Cinnamomum zeylanicum"
toc: true
---

**Scientific Classification**  
>Kingdom:			Plantae  
>Division:			Magnoliophyta  
>Class:				Magnolipsida  
>Order:				Laurales  
>Family:			Lauraceae  
>Genus:				*Cinnamomum*  
>Species:			*C.zeylanicum*  
>Scientific Name:	*Cinnamomum zeylanicum* Garcin ex Blume.  

**Common names**  
**English** : Cinnamon, Ceylon Cinnamon Tree.  
**Hindi:** Dalchini.  
**Kannada:** Dalachinni, chakke.  
**Marathi:** daarachini.  
  
**Discription**  
1. **Habit and Habitat:** Cinnamomum zeylanicum is an evergreen Tree growing to 10 m (32ft) by 10 m (32ft) at a slow rate. Cinnamomum zeylanicum. It is an evergreen tree, attaining the height of about 6-8 meter with thick, smooth, reddish brown bark.Cinnamon  is found widely in Sri Lanka but grows in Malabar, Cochin-China, Sumatra and in Eastern Islands too.  
2. **Distribution:** North East India, Central India, Southern India, Western India; Sri Lanka, Burma.  
3. **Morphology:**  
**Leaf:** : Opposite or sub - opposite leaves are ovate or ovate-Lanceolate, hard and coriaceous, glabrous and shining above, slightly pale beneath with 3-5 main nerves. 1/2 - 1-inch petiole flattened above.  
**Inflorescence:** Many minute flowers in axillary or sub-terminal cymes or panicles.  
**Flowers:** flowers small, 3 mm in diameter, with foetid smell, pale yellow, subtended by small ovate hairy bract; perianth 8 mm long, silky hairy, with short campanulate tube and 6 persistent tepals about 3 mm long.  
**Androecium:** fertile stamens 9, in 3 whorls, with 2 small glands at the base of the stamens of the 3rd whorl; a fourth innermost whorl consists of 3 staminodes; filaments hairy, stout; anthers 4- or 2-celled.  
**Gynoecium:** ovary superior, 1-celled, with a single ovule, style short.  
**Fruit:** Fruit is ovate or oblong, about 1.5 - 2 cm long, minutely apiculate, dry or slightly fleshy and dark purple in colour with single seed and persistent perianth.  
**Seeds:** Single seed.  
**Flowering and Fruiting time:** December-July.  
4. **Propagation:** By seed or vegetatively propagated.   
5. **Importance:**  
a. Cinnamon drug is used in diarrhoea, nausea, and vomiting.  
b. It is commonly used as a condiment.  
c. Medicinal oil extracted from fruit, root, bark yield excellent camphor.  
6. **Location:** Botanical Garden, Ranade-Gotage Building.  
