---
layout: post
title:  "Saru - Italian Cypress Tree"
author: tehsin
categories: [ Gymnosperm, Cupressaceae ]
image: assets/images/cypress1.jpg
beforetoc: "Cupressus sempervirens"
toc: true
---

**Scientific Classification**  
>Kingdom:			Plantae  
>Division:			Gymnosperm  
>Class:				Pinopsida  
>Order:				Pinales  
>Family:			Cupressaceae  
>Genus:				*Cupressus*  
>Species:			*C.sempervirens*  
>Scientific Name:	*Cupressus sempervirens* L.  

**Common Names:**  
**English:**		Mediterranean Cypress, Italian cypress.  
**Marathi:**  		Saru.  

**Description:**  
1. **Habit and Habitat:** coniferous evergreen tree, they can grow up to 80ft.  
2. **Distribution:** Mediterranean region, its original native distribution is unclear; perhaps the question is pointless, as widespread human alteration of natural environments.  
3. **Morphology:**  
**Leaf:** Leaves scale-like, decussate, small, ovate, obtuse, dark green, with a dorsal gland in the shape of longitudinal furrow.  
**Cones:** Cones appear early in spring. Cones on short stalk, glossy, brown to grey, pendulous, globose to elliptic, 2-3 cm long, composed of 8 to 14 opposite.  
**Fruit:** Dry, egg-shaped to round, woody cones, to 1 1/2 inch in length, 6 to 8 overlapping scales, each scale with a small projection.  
**Seed:**The seed cones are ovoid or oblong, 25–40 mm long.  
**Cone time:** develops in March – April.  
4. **Propagation:** Through seeds and cuttings of young wood.  
5. **Importance:**  
The cones and young branches are anti-helminthic, anti-pyretic, anti-rheumatic, anti-septic, astringent, and balsamic and vasoconstrictor. It is used in the treatment of whooping cough, the spitting up of blood, spasmodic coughs, colds, flu and sore throats. Decoctions of the branches and leaves are reported to be used to treat peptic ulcers, haemorrhoids and menstruation problems. Applied externally as a lotion or as a diluted essential oil (using an oil such as almond), it astringes varicose veins and haemorrhoids, tightening up the blood vessels. A foot bath of the cones is used to cleanse the feet and counter excessive sweating. An essential oil from the leaves and cones is used in aromatherapy. Its keyword is 'Astringent'. An essential oil is distilled from the shoots. It is used in perfumery and soap making. Wood - fragrant, very hard and durable. A popular wood for building uses, cabinet making and wardrobes, especially since it retains its fragrance, repels moths and is impervious to woodworm.  
6. **Location:**Botanical garden.  
