---
layout: post
title:  "Akasha Mallige - Jasmine Tree"
author: mithun
categories: [ Angiosperm, Bignoniaceae ]
image: assets/images/jasmine1.jpg
beforetoc: "Millingtonia hortensis"
toc: true
---

**Scientific Classification**  
>Kingdom:			Plantae  
>Division:			Angiospermae  
>Class:				Dicotyledonae  
>Order:				Lamiales  
>Family:			Bignoniaceae  
>Genus:				*Millingtonia*  
>Species:			*M.hortensis*  
>Scientific Name:	*Millingtonia hortensis* L.f.  

**Common Names:**  
**English:**	Jasmine Tree, Tree Jasmine, Indian Cork Tree.  
**Hindi:** 		Neem Chameli, Akash Neem, Mini Chameli, Neem Chameli.  
**Kannada:**	Akasha Mallige, Beratu, Birte Mara.  
**Marathi:**	Latak Chandani, Kawala Nimb, Buch, Akash Neem.  

**Description:**  
1. **Habit and Habitat:** A very tall evergreen tree growing up to 25mts tall and 7 – 11mts wide. Preferably in moist and cold climate but can grow in any kind of soil and adapt variations in climatic conditions to greater extent.  
2. **Distribution:** Tree is believed to be native to Myanmar and the Malay Archipelago and was introduced to India less than 200 years ago.  
3. **Morphology:**  
**Leaf:** Imparipinnately compound leaf, with 3 – 5 pairs of pinnae on the either side of midrib and each pinna bears 3pairs of leaflets and a terminal one leaflet. Dorsoventrally distinguishable. Leafs are ovate with blunt tapering tip, smooth or wavy margin, petiolate. Characteristically base leaf is twice divided.  
**Inflorescence:** Terminal, large, drooping, panicles, about 10-40cms long.  
**Flower:** White to ivory colored flowers, pleasant fragrance. Flowers ressemble Jasmine but these are bit larger and longer.Calyx cup shaped, small, margine curved back. Corolla forms a long tube that wide opens at the top with 4 petals, in which 1 petal(cleft petal) which bifurcates and looks like 2 petals at the top. Pollination by moths.  
**Androecium:** 4 stamens, didynamous, one fertile anther lobe and other forms a spur, adnate to corolla tube.  
**Gynoecium:** Ovary sessile, ovoi; style long; stigma lingulate, compressed bilobed.  
**Fruit:** Capusle, compressed, about 45cms long, dehisce longitudinally along septum ie., septicidal dehiscence.  
**Seeds:** Numerous, winged, 2.5cms long.
4. **Propagation:** Through seeds, but in many places fruit setting is inhibited hence propagation is through root suckers (basal shoots/ root sprouts/ adventitious sprouts/ water sprouts).  
5. **Importance:**  
Grown as ornamental tree in gardens, Avenues. Wood is used as commercially to create puppets in Myanmar, Burma, and neihbouring countries. Medicinal values: anti-microbial, anti-fungal, anti-oxidant, anti-proliferation activity, larvicidal activity.  
6. **Location:** botanical garden, behind ranade hall, behind GSSc office.  
