---
layout: post
title:  "Umber - Cluster Fig"
author: sushma
categories: [ Angiosperm , Moraceae ]
image: assets/images/umber1.jpg
beforetoc: "Ficus glomerata"
toc: true
---
  
**Scientific Classification**     
>Kingdom:			Plantae  
>Division:			Angiospermae  
>Class:				Dicotyledonae  
>Order:				Rosales  
>Family:			Fabaceae  
>Genus:				*Ficus*  
>Species:			*F. glomerata*  
>Scientific Name:	*Ficus glomerata* Roxb.  
  
**Common names**  
**English:** Cluster fig ,Cluster Fig, Goolar, Umardo.  
**Hindi:** Goolar.  
**Kannada:** Rumadi, Atthi mara.  
**Marathi:** Umber.  
  
**Description**  
1. **Habit and Habitat:** A large tree with smooth, grey bark, aerial roots none or few.  
2. **Distribution:** This is native to Australia, Malesia, Indo-China and the Indian subcontinent.  
3. **Morphology:**  
**Leaf:** Ovate-elliptic to oblong-elliptic,entire, glabrous,stipules2,imbricate, pubescent,linear-deltoid, deciduous.  
**Inflorescence:** Hypanthodium.  
**Flowers:** Staminate florets sessile,few,diandrous,situated near the mouth of the receptacles.Gall flowers long stalked.Pistillate florets numerous,subsessile,smaller than the staminate florets.   
**Fruit:** Synconusorange-red to red, fleshy.  
**Seeds:** small, numerous.  
**Flowering and Fruiting time:** November-January.  
4. **Propagation:** Through seeds.  
5. **Importance:** All parts are cooling, sweet, acrid, vulnerary, anti-dysentric, useful in cough, biliousness, diseases of the vagina. The root is useful in hydrophobia. The bark is cooling, acrid, galactagogue, good for the gravid uterus. The unripe fruit is acid, astringent to bowels, tonic, stypic, allays thrist, useful in coughs, biliousness, leucorrhoea, and blood diseases.  
6. **Location:** Botanical garden, Hostel, BCA building surrounding.  
  

