---
layout: post
title:  "Basant rani - Pink trumpet tree"
author: sushma
categories: [ Angiosperm , Bignoniaceae ]
image: assets/images/rosea1.jpg
beforetoc: "Tabebuia rosea"
toc: true
---
  
**Scientific Classification**  
>Kingdom:			Plantae  
>Division:			Angiospermae  
>Class:				Dicotyledonae  
>Order:				Lamiales  
>Family:			Bignoniaceae  
>Genus:				*Tabebuia*  
>Species:			*T.rosea*  
>Scientific Name:	*Tabebuia rosea* (Bertol.) DC.  
  
**Common names**  
**English:** Pink trumpet tree, Pink poui, Pink tecoma, Rosy trumpet tree.  
**Hindi:** Basant rani.  
**Marathi:** Halka Gulabi Tabubia.  
  
**Description**  
1. **Habit and Habitat:** Pink trumpet is a tall, fast-growing tree reaching 25 to 30 m high. The crown is wide, stratified, and irregular, with a few thick, horizontal branches; the bole is straight, sometimes channeled at base.  
2. **Distribution:** Native to continental America, and distributed in India.  
3. **Morphology:**  
**Leaf:** Decussate, long, petiolate, compound, digitate, 5 unequal leaflets, the central leaflet is the larger. Petioles pulvinate.They are oblong, obovate or loblong-ovate, with acute or acuminate apex, entire margin and obtuse base. Leaflet surface is lepidoteadaxially and abaxially, sometimes it can be glabrous.  
**Inflorescence:** Panicles.  
**Flowers:** A staminode present.Anther dehiscence is longitudinal.The gynoecium is surrounded by a thick nectary.  
**Androecium:** 4 didynamous stamens attached to the corolla, alternate with the lobes.  
**Gynoecium:** Consists of a single compound pistil of 2 carpels, a single style and a superior ovary with typically 2.  
**Fruit:** Long, slender, linear-cylindrical, brown, bivalve, loculicidal capsule, attenuate at both ends.  
**Seeds:** Seeds are whitish, thin, with broad, hyaline-membranous wings.  
**Flowering and Fruiting time:** January to April.  
4. **Propagation:** through Seeds and stem cuttings.  
5. **Importance:** Generally planted as an ornamental in gardens. Preparations of the bark of the tree are consumed to eliminate intestinal parasites, malaria and uterine cancer.  A decoction of the bark is recommended for anemia and constipation. A decoction of the flowers, leaves and roots has been used to reduce fevers and pain, cause sweating, to treat tonsil inflammation and various other disorders.  
6. **Location:** Sports ground, In front of Chem Staffroom, New Building.  
