---
layout: post
title:  "Kulkephul - Yellow Oleander Tree"
author: munzareen
categories: [ Angiosperm, Apocynaceae ]
image: assets/images/oleander1.jpg
beforetoc: "Cascabela thevetia"
toc: true
---

**Scientific Classification**  
>Kingdom:			Plantae  
>Division:			Magnoliophyta  
>Class:				Magnoliopsida  
>Order:				Gentianales  
>Family:			Apocynaceae  
>Genus:				*Cascabela*  
>Species:			*C.thevetia*  
>Scientific Name:	*Cascabela thevetia* L.  

**Common Names:**  
**English:**		Yellow Oleander, Mexican Oleander, Lucky Nut.  
**Hindi:** 			Peeli Kaner Zard Kunel, Kulkephul.  
**Kannada:** 		Kadukasi, Haladi Kanagalu.  
**Marathi:**  		Bitti.  

**Description:**  
**Habit and Habitat:** Cascabela thevetia is a thornless, small-sized and evergreen tree growing up to 6-8 m high.Evergreen, lowland or riparian forests at elevations from 50 - 200 metres.  
**Distribution:** Cascabela thevetia is native to tropical America. The plant is cultivated as an ornamental tree and naturalized throughout the tropics.  
**Morphology:**  
**Leaf:**    Numerous, alternate, close together, linear, acute.  
**Inflorescence:** Axillary or terminal cymes.  
**Flower:**  Flowers bisexual, regular, 5-merous, faintly fragrant, Calyx composed of 5 triangular sepals. They are 1 cm long and 0.4 mm wide. The calyx is light green-coloured and glabrous.The corolla is composed of 5 yellow-coloured petals (sometimes white or pink-coloured). The petals are connate at the base into a 2.5 cm long tube. The corolla-lobes are obovate and overlapping, 4 cm long and 3.5 cm wide.  
**Androecium:** composed of 5 included stamens at the throat of the tube.  
**Gynoecium:** Carpels 2, connate, superior, style filiform, stigma big, capitate.  
**Fruit:** fruit is a globose drupe. The fruit is about 3-4 cm across with a 3-4 cm long peduncle. It is green-coloured turning dark brown blackish-coloured when fully ripe. Each drupe contains one stone.  
**Seed:** The seeds are enclosed into a sub ellipsoid stone. The stone is brown-coloured with a longitudinal and a transversal furrow. Each stone contains 2 seeds. The seeds are whitish-coloured and subglobose.  
**Fruting & Flowering Season:** Throughout the year.  
**Propagation:** Thevetia peruviana can be propagated by seed or cuttings.  
**Importance:**  
All parts of Cascabela thevetia are poisonous, extremely toxic. Thevetia peruviana is widely grown as a garden ornamental. Commonly planted near the temples, the flowers being offered to God Shiva.  
**Location:** Botanical Garden.  
