---
layout: post
title:  "Resham rui - Floss Silk Tree"
author: mithun
categories: [ Angiosperm, Malvaceae ]
image: assets/images/silk1.jpg
beforetoc: "Ceiba speciosa"
toc: true
---

**Scientific Classification**  
>Kingdom:			Plantae  
>Division:			Magnoliophyta  
>Class:				Magnolipsida  
>Order:				Malvales  
>Family:			Malvaceae  
>Genus:				*Ceiba*  
>Species:			*C.speciosa*  
>Scientific Name:	*Ceiba speciosa*(A.St.-Hil.) Ravenna.  

**Common names**  
**English** : Silk floss tree, Kapok, Floss silk tree ,Kapok, Floss silk tree, Palo borracho, Kurayjia.  
**Hindi:** Resham rui.  
  
**Discription**  
1. **Habit and Habitat:** Genus Ceiba is from a vernacular South American name for the silk-cotton tree. Species speciosa means showy and handsome Conical-shaped tree, able to grow up to about 9 - 18 m tall.Floss Silk Tree is often rated among the most beautiful trees in the world. Also called Silk Floss Tree, this deciduous tropical from Brazil and Argentina is a large tree rated to over 40 feet. Floss Silk Tree is also well known for the large spikes protecting the trunk and limbs.  
2. **Distribution:** it is a species of deciduous tree native to the tropical and subtropical forests of South America.This plant is native to the Amazon Rainforest in South America, more specifically, in the north-east region of Argentina, Eastern Bolivia, Paraguay, and Uruguay. The Silk Floss Tree was brought up to the United States and many other countries to be planted for decorative purposes.  
3. **Morphology:**  
**Leaf:** : Light green leaves, palmately divided into 5 - 7 lanceolate leaflets measuring 12 cm long and with serrate margins, leaves are usually shed before the flowering period starts.  
**Inflorescence:** Cymose.  
**Flowers:** Flowers: Showy pink 5-petaled funnel-shaped flowers with yellowish-white throats, each flower about 10 - 15 cm long.,Flower-pedicellate,  pedicel small,  12  cm  long,  green,  regular,  bisexual,  actinomorphic,  hypogynous,  showy,  appearing  when  the tree  is  leafless;  Sepals- 5,  gamosepalous,  half  green  and  half  reddish,  valvate,  cup  shaped,  inferior; Petals  – 5,  polypetalous,  yellowish  base  with  pinkish  ends,  rippled  edges  with  ivory  throat,  flecked  with brown,  dark  purplish  longitudinal  patches  on  the  base,  hairy  outer  surface.  
**Androecium:** anthers  yellow,  longitudinal  dehiscence,  versatile,  five  staminodes  basal,  blakish  top with  creamish filaments,  hairy  ends Stamens  many,  fusion  of  filaments  to  form  tube,  reddish  colored,  ten  anthers  at  the  end  of  the  tube, anthers  yellow,  lonfitudinal  dehiscence,  versatiles.  
**Gynoecium:** inferior;  Crapels  –  2,  connate  in  a  superior  25  loculed  ovary,  ovary  swollen,  with 2-many  anatropous  ovules  in  each  locule,  axile  placentation,  stigma  simple,  style- 1,  creamish,  thin, tubular;  Fruit-  Ovoid,  large  capsule,  green  at  first,  grey-brown  after  ripening,  round,  hard,  6-12  inch, many  seeds,  pod  splits  open  to  reveal  silky  fibres  like  the  semal's,  when  fully  open- away  in  a  strong  wind,  helping  to  disperse  the  seeds.  
**Fruit:** Fruits: Fruit is a dehiscent pear-shaped to oblong pod about 20 cm long, inside contains white cotton-like matter with black seeds.  
**Seeds:**  Small, brown, thin.  
**Flowering and Fruiting time:** Spring ,C. speciosa flowers are in bloom between February and May (in its native Southern Hemisphere), but can also bloom at other times of the year.  
4. **Propagation:** Through seeds.  
5. **Importance:**  
a.	The wood can be used to make canoes, as wood pulp, and to make paper.  
b.	The bark has been used to make ropes. From the seeds it is possible to obtain vegetable oil.  
c.	It  is  cultivated  as  a  flowering specimen  tree  and  for  ornamental  purposes.  
d.	The seedpod  silk  has  been  used  to  stuff  cushions.  
e.	From  the  seeds  it  is  possible  to  obtain  vegetable  oil  (both edible  and  industrially  useful).  
  
6. **Location:** Anant Manohar Garden.  


