---
layout: post
title:  "Rohitak"
author: Praveen
categories: [ Angiosperm , Meliaceae ]
image: assets/images/rohitak1.jpg
beforetoc: "Amoora rohituka"
featured: true
toc: true
---
  
**Scientific Classification**  
>Kingdom:			Plantae  
>Division:			Angiospermae  
>Class:				Magnoliopsida  
>Order:				Sapindales  
>Family:			Meliaceae  
>Genus:				*Aphanamixis*  
>Species:			*Aphanamixis polystachya*  
>Scientific Name:	*Aphanamixis polystachya (Wall.)*  
  
**Common names**  
**English:** Rohituka Tree, Pithraj Tree

**Hindi:**  harin-hara (हरिनहर्रा)

**Marathi:** Rohitak, raktharohida (रक्तरोहिडा') 
 
**Sanskrit** anavallabha, ksharayogya, lakshmi, lakshmivana, lohita

  
**Description**  

Growth Form	It is a tree up to 20 m tall.
Foliage	Its alternate, stalked pinnate leaves are 45125 cm long, with 610 pairs of leaflets. Its leaflets have slightly leathery blades that are oblong to elliptic-oblong, red when young, and 7.525 by 49 cm. The midrib is prominent on both surfaces.
Flowers	Its female flowering shoots are up to 110 cm long, while male and bisexual flowering shoots are up to 50 cm long. Its sweetly scented flowers are 49 mm across, and cream to yellow or bronze.
Fruits	Its pink-red-purplish fruits grow in clusters, are round to pear-shaped, and 24 cm across. Each fruit bears 13 seeds that are 1722 mm long, covered with brownish-red or orange oily pulp, and have a dark brown or black seed coat.
Habitat	It grows in lowland and hill forests, usually on hillsides and ridges with sandy to clay soil up to 1400 m altitude.
Associated Fauna	Its flowers are pollinated by insects.
Cultivation	It can be propagated by seed.
Etymology	Greek aphanos, invisible; Greek mixis, mating; Greek poly, many; Greek stachys, branch, referring to the much-branched male flowering shoot
