---
layout: post
title:  "Champa - Sonchafa"
author: Praveen
categories: [ Angiosperm, Magnoliaceae ]
image: assets/images/champa1.jpg
beforetoc: "Michelia champaca"
toc: true
---

**Scientific Classification**  
>Kingdom:			Plantae  
>Division:			Magnoliophyta  
>Class:				Magnolipsida  
>Order:				Magnoliales  
>Family:			Magnoliaceae  
>Genus:				*Michelia*  
>Species:			*M.champaca*  
>Scientific Name:	*Michelia champaca*L.  

**Common names**  
**English** : Champa, Golden Champa.  
**Hindi:** Champa.  
 
**Marathi:** Sonchafa.  
  
**Discription**  
1. **Habit and Habitat:** Champa is very well known flower native to the Himalayas, and popular for its fragrant flowers. It is a tree up to 50 m or taller, up to 1.9 mTrees, buttressed, up to 30 m tall.  
2. **Distribution:** Champa is found in the Himalayas, up to NE India and SE Asia, at altitudes of 600-1300 m. native to the Indomalaya ecozone, consisting of South Asia, Southeast Asia−Indochina, and southern China.It is found in Tropical and subtropical moist broad leaf forests.  
3. **Morphology:**  
**Leaf:** : Leaves simple, alternate, spiral; petiole 1-3 cm long, stout and planoconvex in cross section; lamina 9.5-25 x 3.5-9 cm, elliptic-lanceolate, apex acuminate with twisted acumen, base acute to attenuate, margin slightly undulate, glabrous, chartaceous; midrib nearly flat above; secondary nerves 12-16 pairs; tertiary nerves closely and strongly reticulate.  
**Inflorescence:** solitary, axillary.  
**Flowers:** Flowers solitary, axillary, large, yellow, fragrantUsually nine tepals, 3 whorls of 3 each; either all the 3 whorls petalloid or sometimes the outermost of 3 tepals becomes sepaloid than calyx and corolla and described as under.  
**Androecium:** Indefinite, polyandrous, spirally arranged, distinguished into filament, connective and anther lobes, dithecous, basifixed, dehiscence longitudinal, extrorse.  
**Gynoecium:** Polycarpellary, apocarpous; superior; spirally arranged on a cone like and elongated thalamus; each carpel with a swollen ovary, curved style and beaked and simple stigma, unilocular; placentation marginal, many ovules in each carpel.  
**Fruit:** An etaerio of follicles, dark coloured with white specks.  
**Seeds:** Seeds 2-4 per carpel, rugose.  
**Flowering and Fruiting time:** February -June.  
4. **Propagation:** Through seeds,Grafting,Cuttings.   
5. **Importance:**  
a.it is used for worship at temples whether at home or out, and more generally worn in hair by girls and women as a means of beauty ornament as well as a natural perfume.  
b.The tree was traditionally used to make fragrant hair and massage oils.  
c.wood, which is used in furniture making, construction, and cabinetry.  
d.The bark is used as a febrifuge.  
e.A decoction of the bark and leaves is given after child birth.  
f.The flowers are used to treat leprosy.  
g.The leaves are used as a treatment against colic.  
h.Soil under tree cover shows an increase in pH, soil organic carbon and available phosphorus.  
  
6. **Location:** 


