---
layout: post
title:  "Kadamb - Kaim Tree"
author: mithun
categories: [ Angiosperm, Rubiaceae ]
image: assets/images/kadamb1.jpg
beforetoc: "Mitragyna parvifolia"
toc: true
---

**Scientific Classification**  
>Kingdom:			Plantae  
>Division:			Angiospermae  
>Class:				Dicotyledonae  
>Order:				Gentianales  
>Family:			Rubiaceae  
>Genus:				*Mitragyna*  
>Species:			*M.parvifolia*  
>Scientific Name:	*Mitragyna parvifolia* (Roxb.) Korth.  

**Common Names:**  
**English:**		Kaim, True Kadamb.  
**Hindi:**			Guri, Kaim, Kadamb.  
**Marathi:**		Kadamb, Kalam.  

  
**Description:**  
1. **Habit and Habitat:** Terrestrial, Deciduous trees, to 25 m high, bark 20-25 mm thick, grey-black, smooth exfoliations thin, irregular, fibrous; blaze pink, traversed by whitish rays; branchlets subterete.  
2. **Distribution:** E. Asia - India, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Andaman and Nicobar Islands.  
3. **Morphology:**  
**Leaves:** Leaves simple, opposite, decussate; stipules 1 cm long, interpetiolar, ovate-oblong or obovate, foliaceous, membranous, cauducous; petiole 10-40 mm long, stout, grooved above, glabrous; lamina 5-16 cm x 2.5-10 cm, variable, ovate, orbicular, elliptic or ovate-oblong, base obtuse, attenuate, acute or subcordate, apex obtuse or round; margin entire, glabrous, coriaceous; lateral nerves 6-10 pairs, pinnate, prominent beneath; intercostae scalariform, slender; domatia present.  
**Flowers:** Flowers bisexual, creamy white, 10-12 mm long, in terminal heads; peduncle supported by a pair of bract like oblong leaves; bracteoles small, subulate; calyx tube short, truncate, rim even; corolla tube funnel shaped, 8 mm long, villous inside, lobes 4-5 oblong, reflexed.  
**Androecium:** stamens 5, attached towards the apex of corolla tube; anthers apiculate.  
**Gynoecium:** ovary 2-celled, inferior, ovules many; style filiform; stigma mitriform, hollow at base.  
**Fruit:** Fruit capsules in globose heads, 2-3 mm long, ribbed, separating in to two cocci, brown.  
**Seeds:** seeds many, small and 10-ribbed.  
**Flowering and fruiting seasons:** March-August.  
4. **Propagation:** Seed. The plant is difficult to propagate in the nursery.  
5. **Importance:**   
The bark and roots are used to treat fever, colic, muscular pain, burning sensation, poisoning, gynecological disorders, cough, and edema, and as an aphrodisiac. The fruit juice augments the quantities of breast milk in lactating mothers and also works as lactodepurant. The light pinkish-brown wood is even-grained, moderately hard and durable if not exposed to the wet. It is easily worked and polishes well. A useful wood, esteemed for many purposes, it is used in construction, furniture making, agricultural implements, combs, cups, spoons, plates and for turned and carved articles.  
6. **Location:**
