---
layout: post
title:  "Babul - Blackthorn Tree"
author: mithun
categories: [ Angiosperm, Fabaceae ]
image: assets/images/babul1.jpg
beforetoc: "Acacia nilotica"
toc: true
---

**Scientific Classification**  
>Kingdom:			Plantae  
>Division:			Magnoliophyta  
>Class:				Dicotyledonae  
>Order:				Fabales  
>Family:			Fabaceae  
>Genus:				*Acacia*  
>Species:			*A.nilotica*  
>Scientific Name:	*Acacia nilotica* (L.) Delile.  

**Common names**  
**English:**			Arabic Gum tree; Babul Acacia; Blackthorn.  
**Hindi:** 				Kikar, Babul.  
**Marathi:**			Babhul.   
**Kannada:**			Babli.  


**Description:**  
1. **Habit and Habitat:** A medium-sized almost evergreen tree, straight or crooked, armed tree with dark-blackish-brown, irregularly, longitudinally fissured bark. It is a pioneer species that is relatively fast growing on arid sites. It is an important riverine tree in India, Sudan and Senegal, where it is planted for timber.  
2. **Distribution:** Native from Egypt south to Mozambique and Natal; apparently introduced to Zanzibar, Pemba, and India; Arabia. It is considered as a serious weed in the South Africa.  
3. **Morphology:**  
**Leaf:** Ramal and cauline, alternate, stipulate, stipules modified into ½ to 2" long straight, white thorns, petiolate, compound, bipinnate and paripinnate, pinnae 5-7 pairs, pinnules 10-20 pairs, sessile or subsessile, minute, ovate or oblong, entire, unicostate reticulate.  
**Inflorescence:** Axillary cymose head.  
**Flower:** Flowers tiny, clustered together in bright-yellow, round heads. Bracteate, ebracteolate, sessile or subsessile, complete, actinomorphic, hermaphrodite, hypogynous, pentamerous, yellow, very small. Calyx made up of 4 to 5 sepals, gamosepalous, campanulate, odd sepal anterior, valvate, and minute in size. Corolla made up of 4 or 5 petals, gamopetalous, tubular, about double the size of the calyx, valvate, yellow.  
**Flowering Season and Fruiting:** July - December.  
**Androecium:** Androecium consists of many stamens, polyandrous, filaments filiform, longer than corolla, dithecous, basifixed, introrse, and yellow.  
**Gynoecium:** is monocarpellary, superior, unilocular, ovules many, marginal placentations, shortly stalked ovary, style long, stigma flat and minute.  
**Fruit:** A lomentum, pods linear-oblong, glaucous-green, jointed, joints nearly orbicular, compressed, minutely hairy.  
**Seed:** Many, large, non-endospermic, brownish-black, oblong, compressed, smooth, glabrous.  
4. **Propagation:**  Through seeds.  
5. **Importance:** The bark is a powerful astringent and used as a tan. It is used by the calico-printer, and also forms a valuable tanning material. It is used as railway sleepers and as a high quality fuel. Young twigs are used as "Datoon" for cleaning teeth. Medicinally tender leaves are given in diarrhea, or mixed with pomegranate juice in gonorrhea.  
6. **Location:**   
