---
layout: post
title:  "Gulmohar - Flame Buoyant Tree"
author: mithun
categories: [ Angiosperm, Fabaceae ]
image: assets/images/gulmohar1.jpg
beforetoc: "Delonix regia"
toc: true
---

**Scientific Classification**  
>Kingdom:			Plantae  
>Division:			Magnoliophyta  
>Class:				Dicotyledonae  
>Order:				Fabales   
>Family:			Fabaceae  
>Genus:				*Delonix*  
>Species:			*D.regia*  
>Scientific Name:	*Delonix regia*(Hook.) Raf.  
 

**Common names**  
**English** : Flame buoyant, fire tree, flame tree, Royal Poinciana.  
**Hindi:** Gulmohar.
**Marathi:** Gulmohar.   
**Kannada:**  Gentige hoo, kempu Torai.  
 
  
**Discription**  
1. **Habit and Habitat:** Tall, deciduous trees with grey to pale-brown barkEndemic to Madagascar’s dry deciduous forest but has been introduced in to tropical and sub tropical regions worldwide.  
2. **Distribution:** Native to northern and western Madagascar but has been introduce in to tropical and sub tropical regions worldwide.  
3. **Morphology:**  
**Leaf:** Pinnae 8-20 pairs, leaflets 12-30 pairs, oblong, glabrous or nearly so.  
**Inflorescence:** Racemes.  
**Flower:** Flowers in terminal, simple or branched racemes. Large showy, bisexual; CALYX : Four spreading petals and a larger fifth petal which has steaks of yellow and white; COROLLA: Five smaller sepals that are green on the outside and red on inside.  
**Androecium:** 10 stamens with bright red stalk and yellowish brown anther.  
**Gynoecium:** Ovary superior green, slightly velutinous, style glabrous stigma indistinct.  
**Fruit:** Pods broadly linear, woody, dark-brown or reddish-brown, flat, beaked.  
**Seeds:** Seeds oblong, glabrous, smooth, white or creamy-white, mottled brown.  
**Flowering and Fruiting time:** March-August.  
4. **Propagation:** Through seeds.  
5. **Importance:**  
a.The tree is mainly preferred for cultivation mainly on account of profusion of bright flowers.  
b.The bark is used as a febrifuge.  
c.The tree yields a gum, which is used medicinally.  
6. **Location:** 
    


